---
layout: post
title:  "Tongue"
date:   2016-07-19 11:49:45 +0200
categories: projects
---
Manage yours translations dynamically on your website. No reload page !  

## [⇒ Demo](http://buuuuug.ddns.net/tongue/)  

You can use the TypeScript version or the prototype js.  

### How-To  
Put yours translations in translations folder, in json file (en.json):  

{% highlight json %}  
{  
    "language":"en",  
    "translation":{  
        "word.toast": "toast",  
        "word.translation": "Translation:",  
        "paragraph.eurovelo": "I wanna be the very best\nLike no one ever was\nTo catch them is my real test\nTo train them is my cause\nI will travel across the land\nSearching far and wide\nEach Pokemon to understand\nThe power that's inside"  
    }  
}
 {% endhighlight %}  

In your javascript part, instantiate the class:  
{% highlight html %}tongue = new Tongue();{% endhighlight %}    

You can easily change the translation with:  
{% highlight html %}tongue.switchLanguage('en');{% endhighlight %}  

You can set a defaultLanguage if you wish.  
For the current language, by default if you specify nothing, it will take this of the browser.  
{% highlight html %}Tongue( defaultLanguage?:string, currentLanguage?:string );{% endhighlight %}  
An other thing, if the default language of the browser is 'en-US' and you don't have this file available, Tongue will check if you have 'en' file, after have noticed the 'en-US.json' is not reachable.  

Then in your json balise, set the link with yours translations with dataset:  
{% highlight javascript %} <p data-tongue="word.toast"></p> {% endhighlight %}  

** **If you change something dynamically on your page, with some text, you should update the translation** **  
{% highlight js %}tongue.update();{% endhighlight %}  

### Debug mode  
Debug mode show you if there is a missing translation.  
By default debug mode is enable. You can change it by two ways:  

1. {% highlight js %}tongue.setDebug( false );{% endhighlight %}
2. Or directly in the class file, in constructor.

### Prevent click  
Prevent click on link/flag if you have a version with server side to  
translate your page. It may be useful if some client disable javascript.  
You can prevent the click on each href like that:  
{% highlight html %} <a href="/en" data-tongue-flag>href disable</a> {% endhighlight %}

### TODO  
Get the translation from the url  
